# Investigating the sentiment towards different food products and correlate them with prices

Our course project aims to leverage text mining and sentiment analysis tools to shed more light on what importance the community places on different foods (social value) so as to better understand if the community’s sentiments towards different foods are aligned with their economic value. We plan to understand if current food pricing is aligned with public sentiment around food types. We were initially interested in three dimensions (positive vs negative, Affordable vs expensive and Healthy vs unhealthy) in order to get a more holistic view of people’s opinions about food. We hypothesized that people tend to have strong feelings and opinions on the cost of food and where these foods lie on the healthy versus unhealthy spectrum. In order to do this, estimate the population's sentiments about different foods over a time period across positive and negative dimensions by building a sentiment classifier and a pre-labelled database. Our trained classifier was not sensitive enough to pick up differences between food products. We thus resolved to annotate our data by first developing an annotation guideline and ensuring that the inter-annotator agreement was greater than 0.6. Using our annotation guidelines, we then labeled 1000 coffee  tweets which we used to train our model. Then we tested our trained model on 50000 tweets obtained in the past 9 years (2013-2021). We found no correlation between any sentiment (positive , negative, neutral) and the coffee prices. This analysis suggests that coffee prices are not influenced by the general publicès sentiment towards the product.

